# 🚾 Wild Capital Data Visualization

This project is dedicated to visualizing financial data, particularly focusing on the generation of charts for social media. It is structured into two primary components: data collection/cleaning and chart generation.

- [🚾 Wild Capital Data Visualization](#-wild-capital-data-visualization)
  - [Directory Structure](#directory-structure)
  - [To-Do](#to-do)
  - [Setup](#setup)
    - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Execution Instructions](#execution-instructions)
    - [Data Collection and Cleaning](#data-collection-and-cleaning)
    - [Chart Generation](#chart-generation)
  - [Output](#output)
  - [Contributing](#contributing)
  - [License](#license)

## Directory Structure

The project is organized into the following directories:

```sh
.
├── raw/
│   ├── sp500_earnings_yield.csv
│   └── us10y_yield.csv
├── charts.ipynb
├── data.ipynb
└── requirements.txt
```

- `raw/`: Contains the raw data files.
- `charts.ipynb`: Notebook for generating charts.
- `data.ipynb`: Notebook for data collection and cleaning.
- `requirements.txt`: Lists the Python package dependencies.

After running the notebooks for the first time, you will also have the following directories:

- `chart/`: Stores the output charts. Generated by the [`charts.ipynb`](charts.ipynb) notebook.
- `clean/`: Contains cleaned data files, ready for analysis. Generated by the [`data.ipynb`](data.ipynb) notebook.

## To-Do

1. Abstract the data source name and URL into the CSV
2. Create GitHub repository
3. Commit code
4. Add license

## Setup

### Installation

1. Clone the repository to your local machine.
2. Choose the appropriate Python environment for the project.

   ```sh
   pyenv local 3.11.9
    ```

3. Install the required packages:

   ```sh
   pipenv install
   ```

## Execution Instructions

### Data Collection and Cleaning

1. Run the `data.ipynb` notebook.
   - This notebook will process the raw data located in the `raw/` directory.
   - The cleaned data will be saved in the `clean/` directory.

### Chart Generation

1. Run the `charts.ipynb` notebook.
   - This notebook will read the cleaned data from the `clean/` directory.
   - It will generate charts based on the processed data and save them in the `chart/` directory.

## Output

- The output charts will be stored in the `chart/` directory. For example, `earnings_yield_cycle_plot.png` is a chart generated by the `charts.ipynb` notebook.

## Contributing

Feel free to fork this repository and contribute to enhancing the functionalities of the project. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

## License

This project is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0 - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
